[Music]
some say that great minds think alike
and that's up for debate but they do
seem to have one thing in common they
have some strange habits Albert Einstein
one of the smartest people ever had a
lot of quirks like not wearing socks and
napping with a metal spoon in his hands
can you become a genius if you follow
his example well let's find out
number one no socks ever yes Albert
Einstein despised socks for some reason
he never wore them at all he wrote once
in a letter to his wife Elsa that he had
to wear high boots all the time just to
hide his bare feet how could that
benefit him not much probably but at
least he had a reasonably strong immune
system to stand against cold weather now
seriously the only reason Albert
Einstein didn't wear socks was because
in his childhood it took him just a day
or two to wear out a hole in a new sock
and that says something about Albert
Einstein's mind his thoughts were so
important for him that any issue even
annoying socks wasn't worth the
distraction he just couldn't stand it so
socks were immediately banned for life
number two building houses of cards
another habit that Albert Einstein
adopted in his childhood was building
houses of cards
one time he even built a 14-story house
if you've ever tried building your own
card house you know how much patience
and concentration this process takes I'm
not saying you have to start building
houses of cards to become a genius but
there's one important point about this
habit that's worth a closer look when
our brain is busy with something
mechanical it sets free our ability of
abstract thinking
the more concentration needed the
greater the possible effect will be it's
never wasteful to keep your mind busy
something like building a house of cards
suits this purpose perfectly number
three
playing the violin well young Einstein
was mostly interested in houses of cards
his mother wasn't so fond of it she
decided to come up with another exercise
for her son that would be more useful so
she chose the violin at first young
Einstein couldn't stand it but when he
was 13 he heard Mozart for the first
time and fell in love with it after that
he never stopped playing the violin
again
despite his first reaction Einstein was
curious enough to change his mind about
violin playing also there's no better
rest for your brain than a change of
activity tired of doing math play guitar
tired of playing guitar go for a walk
try out some photography our brains love
when we switch from work to abstract
visual or audio information but don't
forget a normal rest in the form of
healthy sleep can't be replaced by
anything Albert Einstein sure knew that
as well number 4 sleeping 10 hours a day
just imagine that's three hours more
than an average American sleeps nowadays
it's not that Einstein was lazy or a
sleepyhead that's for sure we all know
that a healthy night of sleep is good
for your brain
but generally seven to nine hours is
enough still it's important to remember
that we're all different for some of us
six hours are all right and others need
all ten like Einstein he dedicated his
whole life to thinking about the
universe asking daring questions and
finding the brightest answers to them
it's only logical that he needed more
sleep but there's more to this habit
than you think
strangely enough this quirk somewhat
breaks the tradition of other geniuses
most of them had strange sleep cycles
but in the opposite way sleeping only
four or even two hours a night for
example Charles Dickens was an absolute
insomniac laying his head on a pillow
only when the Sun rose and Nikola Tesla
was an unfortunate victim of nightmares
and couldn't sleep normally he often
said that he recharged his battery by
having naps during the day and you know
what despite sleeping for 10 hours a
night Einstein didn't restrict himself
from having naps either you see Einstein
had a strange routine linked to his
daily naps while he drifted into
dreamland
he held a metal spoon in his hand and
had a metal plate lying on the floor
right underneath the spoon when he fell
asleep he would drop the spoon on the
plate the resulting sound was enough to
wake him up immediately but why would he
do that
to answer this question we'll need to
investigate another of his habits five
daily walks
healthy sleep and exercise every day in
the fresh air doesn't sound like the key
to brilliance more like a piece of
advice from your mom but hey first of
all yes your mom was right all along
and second we already know that the
sleeping habits of Einstein aren't that
conventional Einstein wasn't really a
person with a passion for exercise and a
healthy lifestyle his walks had nothing
to do with benefiting his health the
thing is while we walk we're not busy
our mind is left to itself that's why a
long enough walk can put you in a sort
of trance it'll allow you to relax and
think about things differently this is
exactly what Einstein was looking for to
switch his way of thinking to reset his
mind to find that one brilliant fresh
thought that explains everything
remember Einsteins naps with a spoon in
hand he did that for the same reason
when we fall asleep our thoughts start
to uncontrollably transform into
something unexpected it's believed that
most of Einstein's groundbreaking ideas
first appeared in his dreams
number six adopting routine work as a
habit Einstein always thought that his
humble work in the government Patent
Office in Bern was all he wanted even
though his salary was low and the job
itself was like boredom incarnated in
fact this boredom is what Einstein loved
about his work when we're doing
something monotonous that doesn't
require any skill or mastery our brain
quickly adapts to it
soon we learn to follow the routine
without even thinking this allows our
thoughts to drift freely from one thing
to another you see a pattern here
all these habits contribute to almost
the same thing Albert Einstein had no
recipe for his genius after all he just
followed his needs to put it simply he
just wanted to be free in his thoughts
which helped him develop theories that
change science forever what's more
important about adopting habits is
improving yourself getting good sleep
taking a daily walk or starting to play
a musical instrument are not bad places
to start at all so what habits helped
you to achieve some brilliant results in
your life let us know down in the
comment section if you learned something
new today then give this video a like
and share it with a friend hey don't go
anywhere just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life